hey guys wanted to share with you a
knife I picked up in a trade
I had a few slip joints for sale and was
offered a trade for the Spyderco and is
one that I've you know heard about and
was had a somewhat of an interest in so
I decided just to jump on it
this is the Spyderco Endura with the
emerson opener or you might call the
emerson wave this one is new and box has
not been used and obviously if you're in
denies you know you've heard of Spyderco
and you've heard of the Endura line a
little bit larger brother to the delica
and this one is a little more unique
because it has this emerson opening
device and if you haven't heard of that
basically what that is is when you put
this in your pocket right here and you
it goes up to the society or your gene
pocket when you open it up your genes
hook on this hook right here and as you
pull the knife out opens it up ready for
ready for action now this this blade
handle is FRN fiberglass reinforced
nylon and it has the United action 'el
grip here whatever they call that I used
to be volcano grip but now they have a
little different grip they have their
which is very effective and gives you a
lot of purchase you got the spider coat
in dura there's a logo there the black
clip
and you know they call this Emerson wave
you hear that on all the Emerson's but I
guess from what I hear that you can't
really they can't advertise it as the
wave because Leatherman has that
patented and copyrighted so that's uh
it's called the Emerson opening system
or what do they call this
Emerson opener so interesting blade
shape it's almost it's a drop point but
it's almost almost a spear shape and we
believe it's hollow ground but that
looks yeah I think that is
on the backside you have the the Emerson
patent number and Seki City Japan or
this Spyderco is produced and this one
is VG 10 which is a fine steel always
impressed with spider COEs sharpening
ability you know they they started off
making sharpening stones before they
actually made knives so they know it
they know how to sharpen a knife
definitely
I like the Endura I never owned one it's
a it's a big knife but it's very
comfortable and you can see why it's
been so popular throughout the years
this one is a I can't tell if it's a
dark blue or a grey I think I've heard
people's called a grey but it almost has
a tinge of blue to it you know normally
you have the black handles on on these
trees these enduros this one came out
with the blue I know the flat the full
flat ground and durrës have multiple
multiple colors the boy detent which
basically I think it's I think it was
put there to decrease when you're
pressing down did you crease the the
likelihood of this actually disengaging
which I don't think would do but they
put that in there a few years back I
have some spider codes that but don't
have it or one I have a native that
doesn't have that but they they added
that in there but I think also if you're
handling your knife at night to be able
to you feel that you know exactly where
the lock the lock button is to close
your knife so that's helpful there but
here's some comparisons in size here is
the Chris Reid Sebenza
and you can see it's a large knife and
it actually is a little bit larger than
the Sebenza pretty close though and here
is the ZT 0 5 6 1 and here is and that's
not in the frame so let me get this in
the frame for you and this is a 0 5 5 0
ZT as well so you can see they're all on
the larger knife range so the Endura
definitely holds its own and is
definitely one for the price is just a
great option check out the blade
thickness here it is compared to the
Sebenza a little smaller but not much
it's got some it's it's a nice blade
stock this this version also has a
really robust tip so it's not gonna it's
not gonna break off as easily as your
para 2 might compare it to the ZT
so if you don't mind lock back knives
and you're interested I wouldn't
hesitate going checking out a spider :
dura nice knife and and if you can find
one of these these have been
discontinued I believe but if you can
find an Emerson opening in dura kind of
a fun one to add to your collection as
well thanks guys I appreciate the
support appreciate all the comments and
the subscriptions I'll talk to you soon